Product docs overhaul and definition of Product documents (PD) (#1200)
sourcegraph/about: handbook/product/product_documents.md

These documents were created out of a need to orient around a particular problem statement, and the realization that it sometimes takes multiple [RFCs](../communication/rfcs.md) to fully solve a problem. This helps to aggregate the motivations and learnings around a problem, so that individual RFCs can focus on a particular proposed solution.

_All PDs are in a [public Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Wd-Xx2wNbFtSzeJwbZqMOxdbFDUFxlyR)._

## PDs have similar properties to RFCs

They are:

- [Sequentially numbered](../communication/rfcs.md#rfcs-are-sequentially-numbered)
- [Google Docs](../communication/rfcs.md#rfcs-are-google-docs)
- [Public](../communication/rfcs.md#rfcs-are-public)
- [Open to external contributions](../communication/rfcs.md#external-contributors)

## Status

Each PD has a status that is in the title of the PD (e.g. "PD 1 WIP: Title"). The author is responsible for keeping the status updated.

| Status | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| WIP | The author is still drafting the PD and it is not ready for review. |

> | REVIEW | The PD is ready to be reviewed. The PD explicitly lists whose approvals are required and a requested timeline for those approvals. |

Reviewer: I have been worried about the framing of "required approvals" for RFCs and think it would be more effective (and give authors more ownership) to think of it like "requested reviewers".

```suggestion
| REVIEW | The PD is ready to be reviewed. The PD explicitly lists whose reviews are requested and deadline for receiving those reviews. |
```

Author: Good catch - I started to clarify this in the language I have below about metadata, but missed it here.

| DEFINED | The problem statement defined and agreed upon, and is locked to changes. This is to ensure that anyone involved in solving the problem statement defined within the PD does not need to worry about changing scope. A change to the problem statement likely requires a new PD to be created to define the new problem statement. If the update is minor enough, all interested parties should be notified. |
| ABANDONED | There are no plans to move forward with solving the problem statement defined in the PD. The particular reason is communicated in the metadata section of the PD. For example, the PD may have failed to get the necessary approvals, it may be been superseded by another PD, priorities may have changed, or we may not have resources to work on this PD in the foreseeable future. |
| SOLVED | The problem statement defined in the PD has been solved. |

## PD structure

Effective PDs contain the following information. The below might feel like a heavy structure, this is intentional to help ensure all important considerations and context has been written down. Many sub-sections are very short, and some can be omitted if not relevant to the specific PD.

> _For convenience, there is a [Google Docs Template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MBZxnRlDG69Fyvzpai5rBqxizvX5zVeZiUe6z7VZrjk/edit?usp=sharing) that can be used when creating new PDs. The template format should help clarify the below structure._

Reviewer: I am wondering if the template should be the source of truth for what sections are required and what each means (instead of duplicating it here in the handbook and in the template). I think in practice people will use the template and the handbook won't be a good source of truth for what belongs in a PD.

Author: I was wondering about that too. Perhaps a more high level discussion of why each of the top sections is important and why we included them in the PD template would be more helpful here. Then the template becomes the source of truth for all the individual sections and descriptions/prompts.

- Title that includes the PD number.
  - The title is inlined in the Google Doc so that it is more visible and will not disappear if exported to a different format.
- Metadata about the state of the PD. Including but not limited to:

>   - **Editor:** The person responsible for iterating on the content of the RFC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Editor:** The person responsible for iterating on the content of the PD.
```

  - **Status:** A description of the current state or outcome of the PD.
  - **Requested approvers:** The list of people that the PD author is requesting a review from and a requested deadline for those reviews.

>   - **Approved by:** A list of people who approve the problem statement defined in the PD.

Reviewer: Is there an implication that approval means "we should do this now" or just "we should solve this problem"?
